# TCLD
Transparent Contact Line Detection model

Liquid level detection is a critical and precise task in biomedical laboratories, required for autonomously handling liquid dispensing, aspiration, and mixing. Measuring the levels of transparent liquids in transparent experimental containers, defined as 'Dual Transparent' in this research, poses complex challenges for computer vision techniques. However, existing research efforts primarily focus on single-view and single-instance scenarios, significantly reducing the complexity found in real-world settings. To address the insufficiency, we advance this research field for the first time with fundamental contributions on dataset, theory, and practices. Specifically, we propose the first dual transparent object dataset, named DTOD, which includes 27,458 images captured under multiple views and instances from three independent biomedical lab scenes. We propose a novel liquid level detection method to tackle the multifaceted challenges presented in the DTOD. The model detects liquid contact line through end-to-end learning and further determines the liquid level. To improve contact line detection, a color residual model is designed to stabilize the color distribution of the liquid-air interface, where imaging features are majorly affected by variable optical refractions and reflections due to dual transparency. Experiments on the DTOD confirme the multifactorial challenges. Our method also outperforms the state-of-the-art approach by a wide margin.
